# FP SIG meeting minutes - 2024-07-22

Presents:
    Kenneth Rovers (Imagination)
    Al Martin (Akeana)
    Nicolas Brunie (SiFive)
    Cay Blomqvist (individual)

scalar/vector: reach out to DW status
- Kenneth reached out inside Imagination, no feedback yet (need follow-up + )
- Looking for people with SW / algorithm knowledge (Peter Tang ?)
- Perhaps HPC community

Splitting div/sqrt from F/D
- KR: area is expected to be small (iterative approach) but development cost is large
- AM: due to it being generally slow, SW tends to avoid it all cost, which makes it dead area
- AM: even fast implementation are often not pipelined and disruptive to the pipeline
- AM: there are some precedents: Zmmul (integer multiplication M with optional div)
- AM: there exist some limited area implementation (reusing FMA area + control)
- Need to reach out to initial requester (Gaisler?)
- Removing it would force application to use a software implementation

BFloat16 in softfloat
- KR: request to add support in softfloat may indicate interest
- NB: spawning people might invite people to share their internal effort
- AM: might raise the issue of the opcode space (and may required 48-bit to 64-bit extensions) + could fit well in composable extension effort (is there a TG already ?)
- NB: rather than allocating new opcodes, there is certainly a solution with defining a new vtype
- FP8 formats:
    - even more formats (2 for OFP8, more for BF16)
    - people do cross-product (e.g. e4m3 x e5m2) 
    - only OFP8 is ratified, P3109 ratification might be more than a year away (>= 2025)
- Should we ask to spawn one or two TGs ? (two seems to make the most sense to the person present)

How to track potential activities ?
- use RISC-V newsletter to reach a wider audience and inform people about the SIG activities + ask people to share topic of interest for the SIG with the group
- KR: ask for best-practise on storing and tracking ongoing threads

Open actions:
- [ ] Ask for best-practice for ongoing activitiest [KR]
- [x] Kick off the effort for vector Zfa on the mailing list [AM]
- [ ] Send messages to mailing list to gather interest/feedback on effort for FP8 and BF16 [KR, NB]
- [ ] Reach out to SW & tools about BF16 C-support
- [~] Is it desirable to in general keep vector and scalar floating point support in sync?
    - Do we need a vector version of Zfa?
- [ ] Check with AI/ML, HPC and vector SIGs for recent updates
- [~] Understand software tools and industry needs (partly done)
- [~] Do we need Zfbfwma?
- [ ] Understand status, quality, coverage of testing frameworks, i.e. ACT (how to identify gaps in testing framework for floating point)
- [~] How to map an increasing number of formats to a limited opcode space (e.g. what goes to the very limited compressed 16-bit)
- [~] Look at available opcode space, opcode vs CSR mode
